# CryptoClustering
In this challenge, you'll use your knowledge of Python and unsupervised learning to predict if cryptocurrencies are affected by 24-hour or 7-day price changes.
# Code Source:
Jupyter Notebook code (Crypto_Clustering.ipynb)
# Found the Best Value for k Using the Scaled DataFrame
Used the elbow method to find the best value for k using the following steps:  
- Created a list with the number of k value from 1 to 11.  
- Created an empty list to store the inertia values.  
- Created a for loop to compute the inertia with each possible value of k.  
- Created a dictionary with the data to plot the elbow curve.  
- Plotted a line chart with all the inertia values computed with the different values of k to visually identify the optimal value for k.  
- Answered the following question within the notebook.
# Clustered Cryptocurrencies with K-means Using the Scaled DataFrame
Used the following steps to cluster the cryptocurrencies for the best value for k on the scaled DataFrame:  
- Initialized the K-means model with the best value for k.  
- Fitted the K-means model using the scaled DataFrame.  
- Predicted the clusters to group the cryptocurrencies using the scaled DataFrame.  
- Created a copy of the scaled DataFrame and add a new column with the predicted clusters.  
- Created a scatter plot using hvPlot as follows:  
1. Set the axis as "price_change_percentage_24h" and the y-axis as "price_change_percentage_7d".  
2. Color the graph point with the labels found using K-means.  
3. Added the "coin_id" column in the hover_cols parameter to identify the cryptocurrency represented by each data point.
# Optimized Clusters with Principal Component Analysis
- Using the original scaled DataFrame, perform a PCA and reduce the features to three principal components.  
- Retrieved the explained variance to determine how much information can be attributed to each principal component and then answered the question in the notebook.  
- Created a new DataFrame with the scaled PCA data and the set the "coin_id" index from the original DataFrame as the index for the new DataFrame.
# Found the Best Value for k Using the PCA DataFrame
Used the elbow method on the scaled PCA DataFrame to dfind the best value for k using the following steps:  
- Created a list with the number of k-values from 1 to 11.  
- Created an empty list to store the inertia values.  
- Created a for loop to compute the inertia with each possible value of k.  
- Created a dictionary with the data to plot the elbow curve.  
- Plotted a line chart with all the inertia values computed with the different values of k to visually identify the optimal value for k.  
- Answered the following questions within the notebook.
# Clustered Cryptocurrencies with K-means Using the PCA DataFrame
Used the following steps to cluster the cryptocurrencies for the best value for k on the PCA DataFrame:  
- Initialized the K-means model with the best value for k.  
- Fitted the K-means model using the scaled PCA DataFrame.  
- Predicted the clusters to group the cryptocurrencies using the scaled PCA DataFrame.  
- Created a copy of the scaled PCA DataFrame and add a new column with the predicted clusters.  
- Created a scatter plot using hvPlot as follows:  
1. Set the axis as "PC1" and the y-axis as "PC2".  
2. Color the graph points with the labels found using K-means.  
3. Added the "coin_id" column in the hover_cols parameter to identify the cryptocurrency represented by each data point.  
- Answered the following questions within the notebook.
# References:
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.